[Music]
hey what's up guys explanation pro is
here today i'll show you a war action
film saving private ryan
spoiler ahead watch out and take care in
the beginning of the movie we see an old
man who is crying in front of a grey
his eyes are filled with tears of
happiness and sadness he is in an
emotional state in the next scene we see
flashbacks of the 6th of june 1944.
it is the time of world war ii and the
places doc green sector omaha beach
france
the u.s army reached the location and
are about to attack the germans but the
germans have attacked them first
the u.s soldiers are dying and they are
not able to do anything
the germans have a strong position but
the u.s soldiers don't lose hope and
finally reach the shore
but in the process many soldiers lost
their lives but at last after many
sacrifices and overcoming many hurdles
the us army finally win the victory
because of their bravery
but many soldiers have sacrificed their
lives their bodies are lying on the
shore and among all these dead soldiers
there is a dead body of a man named
private ryan
after this in usa some officers come to
talk to the army head they inform him
about the ryan brothers who are four
brothers in all total and they were sent
to the war but three of them died and
one of them is still alive whose name is
james ryan
then army officers go to his mother and
give her the sad news
listening as their mother becomes
disheartened as she has lost all her
sons
then three army men come to the chief
george marshall they all have gathered
to discuss about the ryan brothers and
they come to a decision that they will
send one team to find james ryan
so that he can come back to his mother
to look after her
the other army heads disagree to this so
to convince them chief george marshall
brings out a letter of abraham lincoln
in the letter there is a speech which
has been dedicated to the mother of the
martyr soldiers
it says that he is sorry that he
couldn't take care of her sons and asks
for forgiveness
the chief have read the letter just to
prove that not only a soldier sacrifices
in his life for the nation but also his
family sacrificed their son for the
nation
the decision is then approved and they
take a decision that captain miller
along with some great soldiers will go
to find james ryan who is stuck in a
town of newville near the camp of german
army
captain miller along with other soldiers
departs in search of him
in the team there is a shooter a map
reader a translator and many more
they are crossing many valleys one of
them then says that to save one soldier
eight soldiers are assigned and this is
not fair
he again says that if he has one bullet
with himself and if he stands in front
of adolf hitler with a distance of one
mile then also he will win the war
actually at that time germans have
already declared world war ii with italy
and germans are fighting for the nazis
whose leader is adolf hitler
listening this captain miller says that
if he was a ranger like him then he
would think this in a positive way
then he tells him to think about james's
mother who has lost all her sons at once
and he is the only hope she has
then the team move forward suddenly they
have been attacked by the germans as
they have entered their area
a german soldier shoots one of the u.s
soldier from the roof of a building and
he dies the shooter of the us team
shoots him in his eyes and he kills him
after this they again start fighting and
the u.s team have successfully killed
all the germans over there
the team moved forward after losing one
teammate then at a battalion they found
james ryan captain miller informs him
that his brothers are dead james bursts
into tears and says that his brothers
were in school how could they die and
who would kill them
hearing this captain miller asks him his
full name and he replies that he is
james frederick ryan
miller then tells him that they are
searching for james francis ryan
listening this ryan becomes happy
because this means his brothers are safe
but the u.s team become upset as this is
not the ryan whom they're searching for
at night the team takes shelter at an
old building that they start telling
their stories like how happy they were
with their families where they were born
and so on
at dawn they start their journey again
they reach newville where ryan's plane
along with other soldiers was landed
but they don't get much information from
there they found a ranger who says that
he has worked with ryan and his plane
was landed here and he stayed here
he advises the team to go towards the
bridge he also says that ryan is there
trying to save the bridge along with
other soldiers
captain miller along with his team goes
towards the bridge
there they found two dead bodies they
look through their binoculars and see
german soldiers are ahead with machine
guns and radar
seeing this the rangers refuse to move
forward and say that they don't think it
will be a good decision to go ahead
rather they shall wait for the air force
to arrive
miller then says that a soldier's life
is never easy they are born to fight and
die for their nation his words motivates
the soldiers and they all become ready
to go ahead
they then use grenades to destroy the
machine guns but in the process one of
them gets injured and dies
now they are six in number as two of
them are already dead moving forward
they found a german soldier who helps
them to dig a grave so that they can
give a proper burial to their teammate
captain miller becomes upset while
thinking about the martyr soldier and
regrets about it
it's time to move forward now so captain
miller then asks everyone what should
they do with this german soldier
everybody says that they should kill him
but the map reader says that they should
leave him as he is innocent and killing
him won't be fruitful to them
then they tie a black cloth around his
eyes to cover them and command him to
walk one thousand steps and then he can
open his eyes
seeing this one of the u.s soldier
becomes offended and asks miller that
why is he doing this
because of one soldier they have already
lost two soldiers and now he is letting
one german soldier go
he also says that to save one soldier
many soldiers are losing their lives
miller then tells him that it is a
soldier's duty to follow the
instructions
he also says that after this mission he
wants to go home and meet his wife whom
he haven't met for so long and he will
do anything to meet his wife and that's
why he wants to accomplish this mission
the team gets motivated and decides to
go ahead after some time they see a tank
coming towards them captain miller
orders them to lay low on the ground
then suddenly the tank catches fire due
to grenade attack they don't understand
who is attacking him from where the
soldiers come out of the tank and
miller's team starts shooting them and
kills them
then they notice another battalion team
have been hiding under the grass and
there they found james francis ryan
seeing him the entire team become very
happy as they have successfully found
him after so much struggle
they have finally found their target
then the leader of james's battalion
takes miller's team to their camp
there ryan asks miller why he was
searching for him in response he says
that his brothers are dead ryan again
asks him how many have died and he
replies that all the three of them are
dead
hearing this ryan becomes very upset and
he asks him that is this the only reason
why they have come all the way to here
just to inform him
miller sighs and then tells him that
ryan has to go with them
the order has been passed that he has to
leave his job and look after his mother
who is very depressed
ryan thinks for a while and says that he
can't go with them
he also tells him that he has some
responsibilities towards his battalion
next day the germans will attack them
and they already have very less soldiers
with them and if he leaves from here in
this situation then his battalion will
lose another soldier
he further says that his battalion will
lose the war and that means the germans
will take over the bridge and if germans
take over the bridge then they will
capture the entire newville and he can't
let that happen hearing this captain
miller becomes very impressed and thinks
of a way
he then decides that his team will also
help james's battalion to fight the
germans and then they will take him with
them
then captain miller takes the lead and
tells everyone what they have to do
he comes to know that next day 3 tanks
and 50 german soldiers will come to
attack them
he teaches them to make some specific
type of bombs that soldiers use in
difficult times
they all successfully make the bombs the
head of the battalion informs miller
that there is a shortage of guns
miller makes a plan that they will bring
the germans at one point and then they
will attack them from three sides and
kill them
he will be in front with his team and
the battalion will be divided in two
halves one in each building at each side
and that's how they will attack
it is evening now and ryan and captain
miller are talking with each other
ryan says that he can't even remember
the face of his mother or his brothers
properly as he has not seen them for
years
miller tells him to think about the
beautiful memories he has spent with her
and not her face ryan recollects his
memories and says that he used to play
with his brothers a lot
they all used to have so much fun he is
the youngest but they all shared a very
strong bond
then he asks captain about his family
and in reply he doesn't say much he only
says that after this mission when he
will go back to his home then he will
introduce him to his family
next day they all are prepared for the
war the germans arrive there but they
don't fall for the trap they enter from
a different way captain and his team
successfully blast the first tank of the
germans
eventually the war begins and many
soldiers are dying the shooter of
captain's team is at an old building and
he is killing many germans from there
but the germans somehow get to know
about this and blast the entire building
and the soldier dies there
captain stays with ryan as his mission
is to take ryan back with him safely
on the other hand the germans enter the
building from where the battalion is
attacking and they kill many u.s
soldiers
many germans also die in the process in
between all this one german and one u.s
soldier starts fighting and the u.s
soldier dies
map reader has been hiding there for a
long time as he has no experience in
fighting
he can only reads map and he is scared
of wars then the germans attack another
building and destroys it captain miller
gets injured because of that and falls
on the ground
the map reader who has been hiding for
so long finally gets the courage and
imprisons five germans
among those five men there is that
soldier whom he had let go
he confronts him that he had let him go
so that he can live his life but instead
of doing so he has attacked him again
the german asks for forgiveness but the
map reader shoots him and kills him
he let the other soldiers go it seems
like that the germans will win the war
just then the fighter planes of us
arrive and kill all the germans and
destroy all the german tanks
finally they win the war after all the
sacrifices captain miller tells his last
words to ryan he says that they have
finally won and ryan deserves it and he
dies
captain's team and ryan become very
upset because of this then we see u.s
chief george marshall is giving his
speech and dedicates his speech to
ryan's mother
he tells her that her son james ryan is
coming home and he has courageously
fought the war and brought victory to
the nation
he also says that he expects that this
news will bring her a little happiness
but he also knows that this will not
lessen her grief moreover he prays that
she gets enough courage and strength to
bear this
now the scene shifts to the elderly man
whom we saw in the beginning of the
movie
this old man is james ryan and he is
standing in front of captain miller's
grave
he came here with his family which
includes his wife his children and
grandchildren as well
and now we come to know that he was
recalling all the memories
at the end he asks his wife that was he
able to earn the purpose of his life
was he capable to deserve this the
sacrifices made by the marchery and
captain miller
his wife tells him that he deserves this
and he has earned it
then he shows his gratitude towards them
and salutes captain miller and the movie
ends here thank you so much for watching
if you enjoyed this video please hit the
like button and also subscribe my
channel for more videos like this
see you in the next video